# OK Computer is an Incredibly Special Album

### Oct 3, 2022

No piece of art has affected me like Radiohead’s *OK Computer* has. Still, I find it hard to put into words just how much this album means to me. Despite releasing 4 years before I was even born, its themes of loneliness, consumerism, globalism, and social detatchment in the information age still resonate with me on an incredibly personal level.

After being reborn and filled with a new sense of purpose, Thom feels he needs to destroy the corrupt and abusive system that oppresses the world today. He takes aim at fake people, self-inflicted pain, corrupt politicians, paranoia, fear, consumerism, soullessness, and conformity, all things that plague society before coming to the conclusion that he can’t save everybody. He cannot stop the march of technology, it’s too big for any one man to fight. After all, technology *was* the one that sentenced him to death *and* brought him back to life in the first place. Thom has reached acceptance. He’s no longer trapped in an unwinnable battle against the unflinching machine of society. He knows can’t save the world; the best he can do is enjoy life as a tourist and watch the world around him spin.

It’s an album that’s so personal that I feel like was written about me. I walk the halls of the science building every day. Doing my work. Having a life without living. In the digital age, it’s easier than ever to feel isolated and alienated. OK Computer is an album that sits down next to me on the third floor of Keck and tells me, “I understand”. I could be scowling and downtrodden at the sea of fake dull people I need to interact with and *Paranoid Android* will be there talking it through with me. I could be sad and forlorn and *Let Down* will make me cry. I could feel reenergized and determined and *Airbag* will edge me on. Just as Thom realizes he can't save the universe, he can only live in it, I've had to come to terms with my own limits. Is it frustrating to be powerless against an oppressive system? Absolutely, but to truly live means taking care of yourself, too.

If you sat down and read the lyrics to this album, you’d think it was written yesterday, not 25 years ago. Thom Yorke’s lyrics of a technologic dystopia that alienates its members is eerily accurate. OK Computer is something that can be heard by millions of people and somehow everyone recieves it the exact same way. Not every album can do that. Not every work of art can do that. It’s the very definition of something timeless. I think that’s special.